---
date: 2016-07-26

author: Michael J. Sullivan
title: Age of Myth
series: The Legends of the First Empire
series_order: 1
cover: legends-of-the-first-empire-1-age-of-myth.jpg

rating: 4.0
published: 2016
goodreads_id: 26863057

categories: ["Science Fiction"]
tags: ["Fantasy", "Epic"]
---

Here's the thing, I started [Age of Myth]() while [The Death of Dulgath](2016-01-14-Michael-J-Sullivan---The-Death-of-Dulgath.md) was still very fresh in my memory. Seeing how [Age of Myth]() is set in the same universe, only 3000 years earlier than the events in The Riyria Revelations, I was fully expecting to experience more of the same magic that Royce & Adrian create (seriously, I can't get enough of those two).

Because of this, I was a bit disapointed at first, more than I had any right to be. [Michael J. Sullivan](../_authors/michael-j-sullivan.md) clearly stated that this was a completely new series with new characters and just the occasional hint / easter egg to tie the two series together.

Reading [Age of Myth](), it's clear to me that this is the first part in an epic fantasy series. The build-up is expansive and the plot moves around rather slowly while all the pieces are set up. It does tend to ramp up a bit near the end, but you can already feel the epic scale that this series will represent and, in light of that, the ending is just a little underwhelming, as it just sets the stage for the actual story to begin.

Apart from that, [Age of Myth]() offers multiple, strong characters, solid writing, a tangible world / athmosphere and multiple interweaving story lines, all of which, apart from the main storyline, are closed up nicely by the end of the book, without feeling forced.

All that aside, I enjoyed [Age of Myth]() as a standalone novel, but I'm convinced that my feelings on this will change (for the better) once the entire series is published & read. It's a solid enough book on it's own, but knowing that there is so much more to come, makes me hungry for more and also a little dissapointed that I now have to wait 4 more years before the entire series will be out...

4 stars.
